In this video we're using the
Union tool to create a union
between our proposed No Take
layer and this fishing ground
layer that you should have
hopefully added.
So if we toggle this on and off
in our layers list, we can see
that it overlaps with the No
Take zone, and we're interested
in how much it overlaps by so
that we can work out how much
the fishing ground would be
reduced by.
But for now, let's clean up our
layers list to begin with, so
this new no take layer.
This was our old layer before we
ran the difference tool, so we
can remove this.
We'll right click and choose
Remove Layer and now we can run
the Union tool.
So the Union tool is different
to the Merge tool that we've
used before because although it
will join your layers together,
it will also create new polygons
in the new layer for where the
layers overlap.
And we're interested in where
these two layers overlap because
we want to find out how much the
fishing ground is going to be
reduced by if we kept this no
take zone as we can only reduce
it by a maximum of 25%.
So let's go ahead, type Union
into the toolbox and then click
on the Union tool under Vector
Overlay.
Our input layer is going to be
the No take zone final and the
overlay layer will be the
fishing ground.
And now we need to choose where
to save the new layer that's
going to be created.
And so as we've been doing,
we're going to save it to the
Geo package we created.
So we'll double click here and
then name the new layer.
So we're going to name it
Fishing No Take Union, click OK
and run the tool.
And now if we toggle off the
original fishing ground and no
Take zone final layers, we can
see this new layer that's been
created, the Union layer, and it
has joined these two layers
together and also kept the
boundaries between the layers as
well where they overlap.
So let's open up the attribute
table for this union layer and
we can see there's three rows in
this table, so this represents
the three polygons.
So the first Polygon is the
proposed no take zone minus the
overlapping areas.
The next Polygon is the fishing
ground and minus the overlapping
areas as well, and then the last
Polygon is the overlapping
areas.
And this is what we're
interested in because we want to
know what is the total area of
these overlapping sections.
So to work out the area, we need
to do as we did in the spatial
analysis area lesson, we need to
toggle the editing mode on our
table on and we need to create a
new field by clicking the New
Field button at the top.
We're going to name it Area and
choose the type, it's decimal
number and then we'll click OK.
So if we scroll across we'll see
that we now have this column for
Area.
So what we need to do, and what
we did before was we need to set
the units of our project so that
we know what units this area is
going to be calculated in.
We'll do that by going into the
Project tab and going into
Properties and then in the
General tab, under Measurements,
we can choose the unit for area
and distance measurements.
So for area measurement we want
to change this to square
kilometres and then we'll apply
our changes and click OK.
And now if we open our table
back up the attribute table, we
can scroll across to see our
area column again.
And now we're going to do the
calculation.
So we'll click on this drop back
down box, make sure it says area
and then type in our equation.
So it's $ area, update all and
now in our area column we can
see the areas of the three
polygons, the three feature rows
and so the one that we've got
highlighted.
This is the overlapping
sections.
And so this is the area that we
wanted to know, so we know that
it's around 14 kilometres
squared, the overlapping
regions.
So we're going to save our edits
and toggle editing mode off now
and we need to know the area of
the total fishing ground.
So let's open up the attribute
table for the fishing ground.
And we're going to do the same
process here.
So we'll toggle editing mode on.
We're going to create a new
field, we'll name it Area and
again choose Decimal number and
click OK and now we'll choose
the column in this box and we'll
type in the equation, so $ area
and click update all and that
gives us the area of the total
fishing ground.
So now we just need to divide
the overlapping area by this
total area.
So we'll get up the table for
the overlapping area, and if we
get up a calculator, we can type
in the area of the overlapping
areas divided by the total
fishing ground area times that
by 100.
And we can see we've got 21% as
the answer.
So the fishing ground would be
reduced by 21% and that's lower
than the 25% maximum and so we
can go ahead with this no take
zone and so that's how to run a
the union tool in QGIS.
So again, just hit save to save
your progress.